# testback

Welcome to your new testback project and to the Internet computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with testback, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd testback/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
### state_machine

use candid::{self, CandidType, Deserialize };: This line imports items (modules, traits, or types) from the candid crate, including CandidType and Deserialize traits.

#[derive(Clone, CandidType, Deserialize, Debug)]: This attribute macro derives implementations for the Clone, CandidType, Deserialize, and Debug traits for the State struct. Clone is derived for creating a copy of the struct, CandidType is likely for Candid serialization, Deserialize is for deserialization, and Debug is for enabling debug printing.

pub struct State { pub counter: candid::Nat }: Defines a struct named State with a public field counter of type candid::Nat. The candid::Nat type likely represents a natural number.

impl Default for State { ... }: Implements the Default trait for the State struct, providing a default constructor that initializes the counter field with its default value.

impl State { ... }: Additional implementation block for the State struct with methods:

get(&self) -> &candid::Nat: Returns a reference to the counter field.
increment(&mut self): Increments the value of the counter field by 1.
set(&mut self, value: &candid::Nat): Sets the counter field to the value provided as a reference.
#[cfg(test)]: Conditional compilation attribute indicating that the following module should only be included in the build when running tests.

mod test { ... }: Defines a test module.

use super::*;: Imports all items from the parent module (in this case, the items from the main module).

#[test]: Attribute indicating that the following function is a test.

fn test_name() { ... }: Defines a test function named test_name within the test module.

let mut state = State::default();: Creates a mutable instance of the `

State` struct using its default constructor.

state.set(&candid::Nat::from(5_u32));: Sets the counter field of the state instance to the value 5.

assert_eq!(state.counter, 5_u32);: Asserts that the counter field of the state instance is equal to 5.

state.increment();: Increments the counter field of the state instance.

assert_eq!(state.counter, 6_u32);: Asserts that the counter field of the state instance is now equal to 6.
